okay let's continue with the topic of
question answering the next segment is
going to be about some of the most
important Q&A systems developed over the
years I already gave you some of the
examples of sisters before Trek now I'm
going to continue with systems that were
developed for Trek and after Trek so
starting in 99 the first system is also
John Baker at all 1999 from IBM was
designed specifically for check and it
has the following components it includes
something called predictive annotation
which means that every named entity in
the document collection at Wayne corpus
is labeled with the candidate answer
types such as person and location it
uses standard machine learning technique
logistic regression to compute scores
for each of the candidate answers so
here's an example one of the questions
is when was yemen reunified so the way
that predictive annotation works is that
it's somewhere between two extremes of
question answering so one of those
extremes will be something that is
purely knowledge-based I don't be based
for example using a parse tree of the
sentence and something that is
completely bag of words type for example
an ir approach in which case you have
vector representations of documents and
queries and sentences and you're just
looking for the passage that contains
the words that are most similar to the
query so predictive annotation is
somewhere in the middle it labels every
named entity with an appropriate
category time expression person location
and so on so here's an example of how it
works in practice one of the tech
questions from 99 was who is the author
of the book the Iron Lady a biography of
Margaret Thatcher so this question is
converted into an internal presentation
that has Iron Lady as a phrase a
biography of Margaret Thatcher as a
phrase and then it gives different
weights to the different types of voice
for example biography and book and
author and so on and
in green in the middle of the screen you
can see the so-called sin categories for
the expected answer so who questions
correspond to persons organizations
names and holes in the named entity
space then the next few lines show a
sample document that was refused by the
system its label is in the middle its
overall IR score is given next and then
one of the passages in this document is
shown at the bottom of the page as you
can see there are multiple day that it
is one is biography of Margaret Thatcher
that was labeled by the NER agent as a
name the next thing is Hugo Young which
was labeled as a person first roster
zero which was marked as an organization
and finally Margaret Thatcher was
labeled as a person and now what we
really need to do here is to identify
the entities that have types that match
the expected types of the question so
we're going to skip some of them for
example in this example actually place
death is not on the list of question
types expected and we're going to focus
on the other four which actually
correspond to the four categories in
green so kids are important observations
about this kind of work if a document
contains the answers to the question the
query words tend to appear in close
proximity to each other so for example
author and the name of the book and the
name of the person like Margaret
Thatcher or Pierre near each other in
the answer sentences another observation
is that the answer is to fact seeking
questions are usually phrases so this is
consistent with the idea of predictive
annotation and those phrases can be
categorised by question type and the
phrases can be identified using a simple
pattern matching techniques commonly
used in named entity recognition so now
in case once we have the candidate
answers that match the question types
what kind of features can we use to rank
them and pick the one that we want as
the first one so in answer the following
feature who used average distance and
several others which are going to show
in the next few
seconds so average distance is the
average distance between the words at
the beginning of the passage leaves and
the words of the queries that also
appear in the passage so for example if
the question is who was Johnny Mathis
his high school track coach and the
passages team O'Donoghue comma
Woodbridge High School's varsity
baseball coach to resign Monday and will
be replaced by assistant Johnny ceballos
comma athletic director David Cohen said
so in this example the passage that
we're considering as a candidate answer
to the original question is team
O'Donoghue we don't want to compute how
far that phrase team O'Donoghue is from
the words that appear also in the
question so the question words are high
school which appears a few words later
in the sentence the word track which
doesn't appear and the word coach which
appears about six words to the right so
the average distance between team
O'Donoghue and the words from the query
is about eight another feature is not in
query so that inquiry reflects the
number of words in the passage that do
not appear in the query so for example
if one of the candidate answers is
Woodbridge High School it's going to
have a knot in quickest score of 1
because the words high and school appear
in the query whereas the word Woodbridge
doesn't the third feature is frequency
this is just the number of times the
given passage appears in the hit list
the next one is escort this is the
search engine relevant score so it's
actually how relevant that particular
sentence is to the original query
according to the underlying search
engine the fifth feature is number that
is the position of the span or the short
text passage that we're considering
among all the spans returned so in this
example Lu Vasquez is the first example
that was returned in all the passages
the next one is relative span number
this is the position of the span among
all the spans returned within the
current passage so an example here the
are spending on value for team or
daughter he would be one would be try
school would be two and so on and
finally count is the namaste
any span class repealed within the
current passage so in our example we
have team O'Donoghue Woodbridge High
School Monday
Johnny ceballos and athletic director
Dave Cowen so five that would be the
answer to this question here and the
final feature is the type which is the
position of the spam type in the list of
potential spam ties for that particular
question so for who questions the answer
is I expected to be person organization
name and hoe but those are not in any
order they are actually ordered so that
person is the most likely one
organization is the second most likely
and so on so we want any candidate
answer spanned that is a person to get a
higher score than one that is an
organization or name or and now we can
continue with full table with all the
features so on the left hand side we
have all the candidates spans or
candidate answer passages for each of
those we have their type the values of
the different feature and finally the
composite score computed by the logistic
regression function then when you sort
the passages based on this value you get
that Lu Vasquez gets the highest score
and is therefore returned in first place
by the system team O'Donoghue's in
second place and so now whether this is
the correct answer is not really
relevant here what's important is to
understand how the system works okay so
this was an IBM system from 99 the next
system is from AT&T research its system
would develop by Abney at all called IO
not it used to be available online but
it's not there anymore it again is based
on passage' cattivo it uses the sultan
and buckley start system which is one of
the classic information retrieval
systems as their back-end it then
performs entity recognition using
Abney's cast parser this is a partial
parser that recognizes chunks such as
northern cursive noun phrases for
example names of people with dates and
so on and then it uses just like the IBM
in the Illinois system uses entity
classification but only for 8 question
types
the next system that I want to mention
is from 2001
it was developed by corikauk from the
University of Washington and other
researchers of theirs this was the first
large-scale web Q&A system that used the
full web index it involves several of
the shelf natural language components
for example it has a maximum entropy
parser for the charniak group at Brown
University it uses PC chemo and worse
system for part of speech tagging and
morphological analysis for unknown words
it uses a the old version of a
dependency link parser by slater and
temporarily and it uses Google as the
underlying search engine it performs
tokenization it identifies phrases in
quotes and it performs quick
transformation so for example a question
like when did Nixon visit China is
expected to appear in original text as
Nixon visited China as opposed to having
the verb in the infinitive and having a
question word essentially expecting the
text in the corpus to be very different
syntactically from the question type and
they can confirm convert the questions
into this format automatic the for
system is from the University of
Michigan is called answer from 2002 it
is based on probabilistic phrase ganking
so the idea behind it is that every
candidate named entity or span has a
signature which is a sequence of parts
of speech for example two nouns or a
noun followed by a prepositional phrase
and then you have a training corpus from
which you determine the probability of
having a certain question type
associated with a specific signature so
for example if the signature is two
consecutive proper nouns and npn and P
then the probability that this is the
name of a person is very high so here's
an example Bill Gates is a name a person
and if pnm P is the most likely sequence
of parts of speech it corresponds to
percent so answer uses again of the
shaft search engines as the back end at
that time those
Google but also some old sir changes
such as all the web Northern Light and
out of Vista the next system is a scam
sr by michelle banko at all 2002 for
microsoft research it's based on the
assumption that if a question is
important that means that somebody has
already answered that question on the
web its components are shown in this
diagram here directly from the paper so
here's what a typical flow looks like we
have a question such as where is the
louver Museum located the first
component is a rewrite query component
where the original question is converted
into like the pattern such as the louver
Museum is located or the Louvre Museum
is in the Louvre Museum is near or just
the Louvre Museum is or finally just the
word louver and Museum and near so those
queries are again the output of the
query writing a cookie modulation
component those are sent in parallel to
a search engine the passages are
targeted by the search engine are then
collected only the summaries or the
snippets returned from each document by
the search engine are considered then
all the engrams for example two three
four word long engrams are collected
from those passages and then those are
filtered and tired
so the talaq process means that if you
have one diagram that consists of the
words a and B and another one that
consists of the words B and C the tiling
component is going to merge them
together into a trigram a B and C so in
this case for example in Paris could be
from one background returned by the
search engine whereas Paris France could
come from a completely different diagram
and those two are together into the
trigram
in Paris France and as you can see it is
very simple example the three candidate
answers of which one is correct and that
is the one that acts in first place so
one more example of tiling if you have
mr. Charles and Charles Dickens that
could be combined into mr. Charles
okay so the last system that we are
going to talk about in this segment is
by Asha Kabul Marku it introduces for
the first time the noisy channel model
where on one end you have a questions
and on the other hand you have sentences
that contain the answers to the
questions and the idea is to pick the
answer sentence that maximizes some
probability given the question and it
turns out that this kind of work
requires a sentence simplification so
that it's possible to learn the
probabilistic model accurately so in the
next segment we're going to look at some
more systems about question answering